---
title: Installation
description: Learn how to create a NuxtHub project or add it to your current Nuxt project.
---

## Quickstart

The easiest way to get started with NuxtHub is to start with one of [our templates](/templates). It includes all the necessary configuration and resources to get you started.

Click on the `GitHub` button, then once on GitHub, click on `Use this template` to create a new repository based on the template.

::callout{icon="i-ph-layout-duotone" to="/templates"}
Explore NuxtHub templates.
::

## CLI

Run this command to create a new project locally using our [hello-edge template](https://github.com/nuxt-hub/hello-edge):

```bash [Terminal]
npx nuxthub init my-app
```

Then, inside your project directory (`my-app` in the example above), run your development server:

```bash [Terminal]
npm run dev
```

Your project will be available on http://localhost:3000

## Add to a Nuxt project

1. Install the NuxtHub module to your project:

```bash [Terminal]
npx nuxi module add hub
```

This command will install `@nuxthub/core` as dependency and add it to your `modules` section of your `nuxt.config`.

2. Install [wrangler](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/) development dependency to your project:

::code-group

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm add -D wrangler
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add --dev wrangler
```

```bash [npm]
npm install --save-dev wrangler
```

```bash [bun]
bun add --dev wrangler
```

::

That's it! You can now use NuxtHub features in your Nuxt project.

::note
NuxtHub will create a `.data/hub` directory in your project root, which contains the necessary configuration files and resources for the features to work. It will also add it to the `.gitignore` file to avoid committing it to your repository.
::

## Options

Configure options in your `nuxt.config.ts` as such:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxthub/core'],
  hub: {
    // NuxtHub options
  }
})
```

::field-group
  ::field{name="analytics" type="boolean"}
    Default to `false` - Enables analytics for your project (coming soon).
  ::

  ::field{name="blob" type="boolean"}
    Default to `false` - Enables blob storage to store static assets, such as images, videos and more.
  ::

  ::field{name="cache" type="boolean"}
    Default to `false` - Enables cache storage to cache your server route responses or functions using Nitro's `cachedEventHandler` and `cachedFunction`
  ::

  ::field{name="database" type="boolean"}
    Default to `false` - Enables SQL database to store your application's data.
  ::

  ::field{name="kv" type="boolean"}
    Default to `false` - Enables Key-Value to store JSON data accessible globally.
  ::

  ::field{name="remote" type="boolean|string"}
    Default to `false` - Allows working with remote storage (database, kv, blob) from your deployed project. :br
    [Read more about remote storage for usage](/docs/getting-started/remote-storage).
  ::

  ::field{name="dir" type="string"}
    Default to `'.data/hub'` - The directory used for storage (D1, KV, R2, etc.) in development mode.
  ::

::

::tip{icon="i-ph-rocket-launch-duotone"}
You're all set! Now, let's dive into connecting to your Cloudflare account and [deploying it on the Edge](/docs/getting-started/deploy).
::

## Nightly Builds

You can also use the latest features and bug fixes (commited on the `main` branch) by installing the [nightly tag](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@nuxthub/core?activeTab=versions):

```diff [package.json]
{
  "Dependencies": {
-   "@nuxthub/core": "^0.5.0"
+   "@nuxthub/core": "npm:@nuxthub/core@nightly"
  }
}
```

Then run `npm install`, `pnpm install`, `yarn install` or `bun install` to update the dependency.
