---
title: Deploy Nuxt on the Edge
navigation.title: Deploy
description: Learn how to host your full-stack Nuxt application globally with minimal configuration.
---

::note
To deploy your Nuxt application on the Edge, we use Cloudflare Pages. Therefore, we require you to create a [Cloudflare](https://www.cloudflare.com/) account. **You can deploy NuxtHub projects with a free Cloudflare account.**
::

The [NuxtHub Admin](https://admin.hub.nuxt.com) is made to simplify your experience with NuxtHub, enabling you to effortlessly manage teams and projects, as well as deploying NuxtHub application with zero-configuration on your Cloudflare account.

::tabs
::div{label="Deployments"}
:nuxt-img{src="/images/landing/nuxthub-admin-project.png" alt="NuxtHub Admin Deployments" width="915" height="515" data-zoom-src="/images/landing/nuxthub-admin-project.png"}
::
::div{label="Deployment Details"}
:nuxt-img{src="/images/landing/nuxthub-admin-deployment.png" alt="NuxtHub Admin Deployment" width="915" height="515" data-zoom-src="/images/landing/nuxthub-admin-deployment.png"}
::
::

## Production vs Preview Deployments

NuxtHub supports two types of deployments: production and preview.

### Production Deployments

- When setting up your project, you can specify a production branch (defaults to `main`)
- Successful deployments to the production branch will be:
  - Accessible via your primary domain
  - Also available at `<commit>.<project>.pages.dev`

### Preview Deployments

- Any deployment from a non-production branch (including pull requests) is considered a preview
- Successful preview deployments are accessible via:
  - `<commit>.<project>.pages.dev`
  - `<branch>.<project>.pages.dev`

::tip
Toggle between production and preview environments in the NuxtHub admin using the "Preview mode" switch.
::

## NuxtHub CLI

Deploy your local project with a single command:

```bash [Terminal]
npx nuxthub deploy
```

The command will:
1. Ensure you are logged in on [admin.hub.nuxt.com](https://admin.hub.nuxt.com)
2. Make sure you linked your Cloudflare account
3. Link your local project with a NuxtHub project or help you create a new one
4. Build your Nuxt project with the correct preset
5. Deploy it to your Cloudflare account with all the necessary resources (D1, KV, R2, etc.)
6. Provide you with a URL to access your project with a free `<my-app>.nuxt.dev` domain

::video{poster="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1723569534/nuxthub/nuxthub-deploy_xxs5s8.jpg" controls class="w-full h-auto rounded"}
  :source{src="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1723569534/nuxthub/nuxthub-deploy_xxs5s8.webm" type="video/webm"}
  :source{src="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1723569534/nuxthub/nuxthub-deploy_xxs5s8.mp4" type="video/mp4"}
  :source{src="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1723569534/nuxthub/nuxthub-deploy_xxs5s8.ogg" type="video/ogg"}
::

::note
You can also install the [NuxtHub CLI](https://github.com/nuxt-hub/cli) globally with: `npm i -g nuxthub`.
::

## GitHub Action

- New projects
- After linking your project to a GitHub repository,

NuxtHub will automatically create a GitHub Actions workflow tailored to your project. The workflow will automatically create a deployment on every commit.

- Full GitHub deployments support, including [deployment protection rules](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/managing-workflow-runs-and-deployments/managing-deployments/managing-environments-for-deployment#deployment-protection-rules)
- Pull request comments for branch url, permalink and qr code
- Workflow fully customisable to fit any DevOps goals

### Setup

- new projec

### Migrating to GitHub Actions from Pages CI

If you have more complex deployment requirements, you can customise the GitHub

::note{to="https://docs.github.com/en/actions/managing-workflow-runs-and-deployments/managing-deployments/managing-environments-for-deployment#environment-secrets"}
Environment variables and secrets required for building your Nuxt app should be set within your GitHub environments.
::

```yaml [.github/workflows/nuxthub.yml]
name: Deploy to NuxtHub
on: push

jobs:
  deploy:
    name: "Deploy to NuxtHub"
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    environment:
      name: ${{ github.ref == 'refs/heads/main' && 'production' || 'preview' }}
      url: ${{ steps.deploy.outputs.deployment-url }}
    permissions:
      contents: read
      id-token: write

    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - name: Install pnpm
        uses: pnpm/action-setup@v4
        with:
          version: 9

      - name: Install Node.js
        uses: actions/setup-node@v4
        with:
          node-version: 22
          cache: 'pnpm'

      - name: Install dependencies
        run: pnpm install

      - name: Build site
        run: pnpm run build

      - name: Deploy to NuxtHub
        uses: nuxt-hub/action@v1
        id: deploy
```

- If one repo linked, project key doesn't need specifying.

## Cloudflare Pages CI

Importing an existing Cloudflare Pages project that is already linked to a Git repository will use [Cloudflare Pages CI](https://pages.cloudflare.com) to deploy your project.

- Each commit will trigger a new deployment within Pages CI.
- Environment variables set within NuxtHub Admin will be available during CI.

::note
All existing projects with a Git repository linked to Cloudflare Pages prior to our GitHub Action being released uses [Cloudflare Pages CI](https://pages.cloudflare.com) for automated deployments.
::

::tip
You can migrate from Cloudflare Pages CI to [GitHub Actions](#github-action) at any time. Begin with process within NuxtHub Admin → Project → Settings → Git.
::

## Self-hosted

You can deploy your project on your own Cloudflare account without using the NuxtHub Admin.

For that, you need to create the necessary resources in your Cloudflare account and configure your project to use them ([D1](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/workers/d1), [KV](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/workers/kv/namespaces), [R2](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/r2/new), etc.).

::note
You only need to create these resources if you have explicitly enabled them in the Hub Config.
::

Then, create a [Cloudflare Pages project](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/pages/new/provider/github) and link your GitHub or Gitlab repository and choose the Nuxt Framework preset in the build settings.

Once your project is created, open the `Settings` tab and set:
- Runtime > Compatibility flags
  - Add the `nodejs_compat` flag
- Bindings
  - KV namespace: `KV` and select your KV namespace created
  - KV namespace: `CACHE` and select your KV namespace for caching created
  - R2 bucket: `BLOB` and select your R2 bucket created
  - D1 database: `DB` and select your D1 database created
  - AI: `AI`
  - Browser: `BROWSER`
  - Vectorize: `VECTORIZE_<index name in upper case>` and select your Vectorize index created :br
    ```bash
    # Create the Vectorize index manually using
    npx wrangler vectorize create <index-name> --dimensions=<dimensions> --metric=<metric>
    ```

Go back to the `Deployment` tab and retry the last deployment by clicking on `...` then `Retry deployment`.

::tip
Once the deployment is done, you should be able to use `npx nuxt dev --remote` after [configuring the remote storage](/docs/getting-started/remote-storage#self-hosted)
::
