---
title: Remote Storage
description: Access your remote data locally or from external Nuxt projects with our secured proxy.
---

One of the main features of NuxtHub is the ability to access your remote storage from your local environment or from external Nuxt projects. This is made possible by our secured proxy system.

There are two ways to use the remote storage:
- [**Local development**](#local-development): Access your remote storage from your local environment, useful for sharing your database, KV, and blob data with your team or work with your production data.
- [**External Nuxt projects**](#external-nuxt-projects): Access your remote storage from another Nuxt project, useful if your frontend is deployed on a different hosting platform and you want to use your NuxtHub project as a backend.

::important
Your project [must be deployed](/docs/getting-started/deploy) in order to use this feature.
::

## Local Development

Once your project is deployed, you can use the remote storage in your local project.

Start your Nuxt project with:

```bash [Terminal]
npx nuxt dev --remote
```

The development project will now use the remote storage from your deployed project and these logs should happen in your terminal:

```bash
ℹ Using production environment
ℹ Using remote storage from https://my-project.nuxt.dev
ℹ Remote storage available: database, kv, blob
```

::tip{icon="i-ph-rocket-launch-duotone"}
That's it! Your local project is now using the remote storage from your deployed project.
::

To always use the remote storage in your local project in development, you can use the `remote` option in your `nuxt.config` file:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  // Apply only in development
  $development: {
    hub: {
      remote: true
    }
  }
})
```

::important
You should not use the `remote` option in your `nuxt.config` file in production if you are deploying your project to NuxtHub or Cloudflare Pages. Use it in production only when you are [connecting from external Nuxt projects](#external-nuxt-projects).
::

::note
NuxtHub will use the remote storage from your deployed project **as long as you are logged in with the [NuxtHub CLI](https://github.com/nuxt-hub/cli) and the local project is linked to a NuxtHub project** with `nuxthub link` or `nuxthub deploy`.
::

### Production vs Preview

Based on your current git branch, NuxtHub will either use your production or preview environment. You can configure your production environment in your project settings on the [NuxtHub Admin](https://admin.hub.nuxt.com), default is set to `main`.

To force a specific environment, you can set the value to the `--remote` option:

```bash [Terminal]
# Force remote storage from the production environment
npx nuxt dev --remote=production

# Force remote storage from the preview environment
npx nuxt dev --remote=preview
```

You can also set the `remote` options in your `nuxt.config` file to force a specific environment:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  // Apply only in development
  $development: {
    hub: {
      // Force remote storage to preview environment
      remote: 'preview'
    }
  }
})
```

### Custom Preview URL

By default, NuxtHub will fetch the latest preview deployment URL to connect to the remote storage. If you want to use a custom preview URL, you can use the `hub.projectUrl` option:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  // Apply only in development
  $development: {
    hub: {
      projectUrl ({ env, branch }) {
        // Select the preview URL from the dev branch
        if (env === 'preview') {
          return 'https://dev.my-project.nuxt.dev'
        }
        return 'https://my-project.nuxt.dev'
      }
    }
  }
})
```


### Self-hosted

If you are not using the [NuxtHub Admin](https://admin.hub.nuxt.com) to manage your project, you can still use the remote storage in your local development environment.

1. Set the `NUXT_HUB_PROJECT_SECRET_KEY` environment variable in your Cloudflare Pages project settings and retry the last deployment to apply the changes (you can generate a random secret on https://www.uuidgenerator.net/version4)
2. Set the same `NUXT_HUB_PROJECT_SECRET_KEY` and `NUXT_HUB_PROJECT_URL` environment variables in your local project
    ```bash [.env]
    NUXT_HUB_PROJECT_SECRET_KEY=my-project-secret-used-in-cloudflare-env
    NUXT_HUB_PROJECT_URL=https://my-nuxthub-project.pages.dev
    ```

Then, start your Nuxt project with:

```bash [Terminal]
npx nuxt dev --remote
```

::note
NuxtHub will use the remote data from your deployed project as long as the `NUXT_HUB_PROJECT_SECRET_KEY` matches the one in your Cloudflare Pages project settings.
::

::warning
You cannot specify the environment (production or preview) when using the remote option with a self-hosted project since you specify the deployed URL with the `NUXT_HUB_PROJECT_URL` environment variable.
::

## External Nuxt Projects

It is possible to use the remote storage from another Nuxt project. This can be useful if your frontend is deployed on another hosting platform and you want to use your NuxtHub as your backend.

::note
[See an example in video](https://twitter.com/Atinux/status/1766622889992757317).
::

To access your remote storage from another Nuxt project:

1. Install `@nuxthub/core` to your project:

::code-group
```bash [pnpm]
pnpm add @nuxthub/core
```
```bash [yarn]
yarn add @nuxthub/core
```
```bash [npm]
npm install @nuxthub/core
```
```bash [bun]
bun add @nuxthub/core
```
::

2. Add it to the `extends` section in your `nuxt.config` and set the `remote` option to `true`:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  extends: ['@nuxthub/core'],
  hub: {
    remote: true
  }
})
```

3. Add the `NUXT_HUB_PROJECT_URL` and `NUXT_HUB_PROJECT_SECRET_KEY` environment variables to your project:

```bash [.env]
NUXT_HUB_PROJECT_URL=https://my-nuxthub-project.pages.dev
NUXT_HUB_PROJECT_SECRET_KEY=my-project-secret-used-in-cloudflare-env
```

If you haven't, set the `NUXT_HUB_PROJECT_SECRET_KEY` environment variable in your NuxtHub deployed project and make sure to redeploy.

::tip{icon="i-ph-rocket-launch-duotone"}
You can now use the remote storage from your NuxtHub project in your external Nuxt project (both locally and in production).
::
