---
title: Cache
description: How to use cache storage with NuxtHub.
---

NuxtHub cache uses [Cloudflare Workers KV](https://developers.cloudflare.com/kv) to cache your server route responses or functions using Nitro's `cachedEventHandler` and `cachedFunction`.

## Getting Started

Enable the cache storage in your NuxtHub project by adding the `cache` property to the `hub` object in your `nuxt.config.ts` file.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  hub: {
    cache: true
  }
})
```

Once you deploy your project, you can access to the cache storage in the [NuxtHub admin](https://admin.hub.nuxt.com/). You can manage your cache entries in the `Cache` section of your project page.


## Event handlers caching

Using the `cachedEventHandler` function, you can cache the response of a server route. This function will cache the response of the server route into the NuxtHub cache storage.

```ts [server/api/cached-route.ts]
import type { H3Event } from 'h3'

export default cachedEventHandler((event) => {
  return {
    success: true,
    date: new Date().toISOString()
  }
}, {
  maxAge: 60 * 60, // 1 hour
  getKey: (event: H3Event) => event.node.req.url
})
```

The above example will cache the response of the `/api/cached-route` route for 1 hour. The `getKey` function is used to generate the key for the cache entry.

## Functions caching

Using the `cachedFunction` function, You can cache a function. This is useful to cache the result of a function that is not an event handler but a part of it and reuse it in multiple handlers.

```ts [server/utils/cached-function.ts]
import type { H3Event } from 'h3'

export const getRepoStarCached = defineCachedFunction(async (event: H3Event, repo: string) => {
  const data: any = await $fetch(`https://api.github.com/repos/${repo}`)

  return data.stargazers_count
}, {
  maxAge: 60 * 60, // 1 hour
  name: 'ghStars',
  getKey: (event: H3Event, repo: string) => repo
})
```

The above example will cache the result of the `getRepoStarCached` function for 1 hour.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-information-circle" class="prose-code:bg-gray-50 dark:prose-code:bg-gray-800"}
It is important to note that the `event` argument should always be the first argument of the cached function. Nitro leverages `event.waitUntil` to keep the instance alive while the cache is being updated while the response is sent to the client.  

:br

[Read more about this in the Nitro docs](https://nitro.unjs.io/guide/cache#edge-workers).
::
