---
title: Deploy
description: How to deploy your project with NuxtHub.
---

To deploy your Nuxt application on the Edge, we use Cloudflare Pages. Therefore, we require you to create a [Cloudflare](https://www.cloudflare.com/){target=_blank} account.

Then, two options are offered to you:

## Using hub.nuxt.com

The [NuxtHub admin](https://hub.nuxt.com){target=_blank} is designed to simplify your experience with the NuxtHub module, enabling you to effortlessly manage teams and projects, as well as deploy in seconds combined with the NuxtHub CLI.

### Create your team

First, you need to connect to [NuxtHub admin](https://hub.nuxt.com){target=_blank}. A default team is automatically created for you, and you will be able to update it in the settings.

Next, you are invited to setup your team with Cloudflare, which involves linking it to your Cloudflare account. Follow the instructions by creating an access token on Cloudflare, and then linking it to the team in the admin.

Done? Now your team is connected to Cloudflare.

### Create your project

From here, you can either create your project in the admin or with the CLI. But in both cases, you will need to use the CLI to deploy your project, so let's install it together.

Install NuxtHub CLI with any binaries manager (we recommand Volta.sh):

```bash
volta install nuxthub
```

Then you can already connect it to NuxtHub with:

```bash
nuxthub login
```

It opens a browser window to connect to your NuxtHub account. Once done, you can close the browser window. Now we can create a new project.

#### In the Admin

Jump to the "Projects" section of your team, and click "New project". A project name is required. Then, NuxtHub creates a new Cloudflare Pages for you, alongside a D1 for your database, a KV for your key-values and a R2 to upload files.

Then, you can link your local project with the NuxtHub project. Execute this following command from the root of your project:

```bash
nuxthub link
```

It should list your teams, select the one you want, then it lists the projects, select the one you just created. Now your local project is linked to the NuxtHub project.

#### With the CLI

You can simply run the following command from the root of your project, which will eventually offer you to create a new project, enter the name and it will be created and linked for you.

```bash
nuxthub link
```

### Deploy your project

```bash
nuxthub deploy
```

This command:

1. Asks you to connect to hub.nuxt.com, if not already logged in
2. Links your local project with a NuxtHub project, if not already linked
3. Deploys your project to Cloudflare Pages

::callout
Documentation coming soon.
::

<!-- TODO -->

## On your own

Even if you don't want to use NuxtHub admin, you can use the NuxtHub module.

::callout
Documentation coming soon.
::

<!-- TODO -->
