---
title: Installation
description: Learn how to create a NuxtHub project or add it to your current Nuxt project.
---

## Quickstart

The easiest way to get started with NuxtHub is to use our template. It includes all the necessary configuration and resources to get you started with NuxtHub.

Click on `Use this template` on [github.com/nuxt-hub/starter](https://github.com/nuxt-hub/starter) to create a new repository based on the template.

You can also run this command to create a new project locally:

```bash [Terminal]
npx nuxthub init my-app
```

## Add to a Nuxt project

1. Install the NuxtHub module to your project:

::code-group

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm add @nuxthub/core
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add @nuxthub/core
```

```bash [npm]
npm install @nuxthub/core
```

```bash [bun]
bun add @nuxthub/core
```

::

2. Install `wrangler` development dependency to your project:

::code-group

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm add -D wrangler
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add --dev wrangler
```

```bash [npm]
npm install --save-dev wrangler
```

```bash [bun]
bun add --dev wrangler
```

::

3. Add `@nuxthub/core` to your `modules` section in your `nuxt.config`:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxthub/core']
})
```

That's it! You can now use NuxtHub features in your Nuxt project.

::note
NuxtHub will create a `.data/hub` directory in your project root, which contains the necessary configuration files and resources for the features to work. It will also add it to the `.gitignore` file to avoid committing it to your repository.
::

## Use Nuxi (Nuxt CLI)

The `nuxi module add` command simplifies installation and adding modules to nuxt.config.

1. Install using the `nuxi module add` command:

```bash
npx nuxi@latest module add hub
```

## Options

Configure options in your `nuxt.config.ts` as such:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxthub/core'],
  hub: {
    // NuxtHub options
  }
})
```

::field-group
  ::field{name="remote" type="boolean|string"}
    Default to `false` - Allows working with remote storage (database, kv, blob) from your deployed project. :br
    [Read more about remote storage for usage](/docs/getting-started/remote-storage).
  ::

  ::field{name="analytics" type="boolean"}
    Default to `false` - Enables analytics for your project (coming soon).
  ::

  ::field{name="blob" type="boolean"}
    Default to `false` - Enables blob storage to store static assets, such as images, videos and more.
  ::

  ::field{name="cache" type="boolean"}
    Default to `false` - Enables cache storage to cache your server route responses or functions using Nitro's `cachedEventHandler` and `cachedFunction`
  ::

  ::field{name="database" type="boolean"}
    Default to `false` - Enables SQL database to store your application's data.
  ::

  ::field{name="kv" type="boolean"}
    Default to `false` - Enables Key-Value to store JSON data accessible globally.
  ::
::

::tip{icon="i-ph-rocket-launch-duotone"}
You're all set! Now, let's dive into connecting to your Cloudflare account and [deploying it on the Edge](/docs/getting-started/deploy).
::
