---
title: Remote Storage
description: Access your remote data locally or from external Nuxt projects with our secured proxy.
---

:img{src="/images/docs/nuxthub-remote-access.png" alt="NuxtHub Remote Access" width="766" height="377"}

One of the main features of NuxtHub is the ability to access your remote storage from your local environment or from external Nuxt projects. This is made possible by our secured proxy system.

There are two ways to use the remote storage:
- [**Local development**](#local-development): Access your remote storage from your local environment, useful for sharing your database, KV, and blob data with your team or work with your production data.
- [**External Nuxt projects**](#external-nuxt-projects): Access your remote storage from another Nuxt project, useful if your frontend is deployed on a different hosting platform and you want to use your NuxtHub project as a backend.

::important
Your project [must be deployed](/docs/getting-started/deploy) in order to use this feature.
::

## Local Development

::steps
### Set Project Secret Key

To setup your deployed project to accept remote storage from your local project, you first need to set the `NUXT_HUB_PROJECT_SECRET_KEY` environment variable in your deployed project settings.

::tip{to="https://www.uuidgenerator.net/version4"}
You can generate a random secret using [this tool](https://www.uuidgenerator.net/version4).
::

Make sure to redeploy your project to apply the changes.

Next, you need to set the `NUXT_HUB_PROJECT_SECRET_KEY` in your local `.env` file.

```bash [.env]
NUXT_HUB_PROJECT_SECRET_KEY=<my-project-secret-key>
```

### Set the Project URL

Use the `hub.projectUrl` option to set the URL of your deployed project based on the local environment:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  // Apply only in development
  $development: {
    hub: {
      projectUrl ({ env, branch }) {
        // Select the preview URL from the dev branch
        if (env === 'preview') {
          return 'https://dev.my-project.nuxt.dev'
        }
        return 'https://my-project.nuxt.dev'
      }
    }
  }
})
```

::tip
`env` is `production` when `branch` is `main`, otherwise it's `preview`.
::

### Start your Nuxt project

::code-group
```bash [Default]
npx nuxt dev --remote
```
```bash [Production]
npx nuxt dev --remote=production
```
```bash [Preview]
npx nuxt dev --remote=preview
```
::

The development project will now use the remote storage from your deployed project and these logs should happen in your terminal:

```bash [Terminal]
ℹ Using production environment
ℹ Using remote storage from https://my-project.nuxt.dev
ℹ Remote storage available: database, kv, blob
```

::tip{icon="i-lucide-rocket"}
That's it! Your local project is now using the remote storage from your deployed project.
::

To always use the remote storage in your local project in development, you can use the `remote` option in your `nuxt.config` file:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  // Apply only in development
  $development: {
    hub: {
      remote: true // or 'production' or 'preview'
    }
  }
})
```

::important
You should not use the `remote` option in your `nuxt.config` file in production if you are deploying your project to NuxtHub or Cloudflare Pages. Use it in production only when you are [connecting from external Nuxt projects](#external-nuxt-projects).
::

::


## External Nuxt Projects

It is possible to use the remote storage from another Nuxt project. This can be useful if your frontend is deployed on another hosting platform and you want to use your NuxtHub as your backend.

::note
[See an example in video](https://twitter.com/Atinux/status/1766622889992757317).
::

To access your remote storage from another Nuxt project:

1. Install `@nuxthub/core` to your project:

::code-group
```bash [pnpm]
pnpm add @nuxthub/core
```
```bash [yarn]
yarn add @nuxthub/core
```
```bash [npm]
npm install @nuxthub/core
```
```bash [bun]
bun add @nuxthub/core
```
::

2. Add it to the `modules` section in your `nuxt.config` and set the `remote` option to `true`:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxthub/core'],
  hub: {
    remote: true
  }
})
```

3. Add the `NUXT_HUB_PROJECT_URL` and `NUXT_HUB_PROJECT_SECRET_KEY` environment variables to your project:

```bash [.env]
NUXT_HUB_PROJECT_URL=https://my-nuxthub-project.pages.dev
NUXT_HUB_PROJECT_SECRET_KEY=my-project-secret-used-in-cloudflare-env
```

If you haven't, set the `NUXT_HUB_PROJECT_SECRET_KEY` environment variable in your NuxtHub deployed project and make sure to redeploy.

::tip{icon="i-lucide-rocket"}
You can now use the remote storage from your NuxtHub project in your external Nuxt project (both locally and in production).
::
